# Welcome

* * *

Welcome, one and all, to Learn TI-83 Plus Assembly In 28 Days -- the
_ultimate_ (read: "only") guide for learning how to program the TI-83 Plus
graphing calculator. In this series of HTML files is all you will need to join
the ranks of expert programmers making cheap knock-offs of Game Boy and cell-
phone games.

## The Purpose Of This Guide

As you can guess from the title, this guide is set up so you can learn to
program the TI-83 Plus calculator in 28 days. This guide is intended so people
who have little or no experience in assembly can learn how to make calculator
programs. This guide will cover making straight ASM programs (called
"nostub"). <del>No Applications or Ion/MirageOS-compatible programs here. If
that is more to your liking, there are other references you can consult.</del>
ED: prod in the right direction for shells to be done.

## Why I Made This Guide

While the TI-83 Plus has been around for about three years, the amount of info
about programming it is depressingly low. I believe this is because most
people think that, because the TI-83 and the TI-83 Plus have similar model
numbers, then the almighty ASMGuru should be perfect for both of them. This is
a _bad_ idea, as the Plus has a very different structure than its predecessor.
Many of the programs in ASMGuru will not work correctly on the TI-83 Plus,
some may even cause a very hideous crash.

(Invisible anti-AsmGuru flame follows. Not really necessary anymore; kept for
hysterical reasons)  

Furthermore--and I know I'm going to piss off at least a few of you--but I
think ASMGuru is a horribly written tutorial. For one thing, the tutorial
order barely has a shred of logic behind it (on the other hand, maybe splash
screens _are_ integral to learning about registers). Too, on the very first
page, he says he knows practically nothing about assembly (and damned if
that's not an understatement)...yet he wrote the (supposedly) definitive help
file on it. Hmmmm... applying that logic, since I know absolutely nothing
about performing a coronary bypass, I think I'll go teach a class at a medical
university. Yeah, that'd be a _great_ idea.

## What's In This Guide

A series of 28 tutorials about assembly programming, augmented with example
programs and graphics (which were made in MSPaint and Excel (yes, Excel. Laugh
if you want, but I'm telling you there's no better way to make rectangles and
lines), so don't get your hopes up for the next Van Gogh). I've tried to
present the material in a logical order: the most essential aspects of
assembly are covered in the first few days, with each successive day building
off the topics covered in the previous one.  
As I think that forcing you to scan thirty lines of code just to learn how to
add two numbers together is sadistic, every topic will be explained first in a
few paragraphs of simple English, followed by heavily commented example
programs.

## How To Use This Guide

Don't be under the impression that you have a schedule to follow. If you can
go through eight lessons in two hours, go ahead. If you feel you have to spend
a few days repeatedly going over one section to understand it totally, no
problem. Calling each lesson a "day" is merely this guide's "gimmick": I
thought it would be more flavorful than just going "Lesson 6...Lesson
7...Lesson 8..."

Think you're ready? Then go to the [Table of Contents](lesson/toc.html), or
just go straight to [Day 1](lesson/day01.html). You might also want to check
out the [Formatting used in this guide](ref/format.html).

* * *

This is part of Learn TI-83 Plus Assembly In 28 Days  
Copyright (c) 2002, 2003, 2004 Sean McLaughlin  
See the file `gfdl.html` for copying conditions

* * *

